4. Store and retrieve data in pig.
Apache Pig is a high-level platform for processing large data sets using Hadoop. 
Hadoop stores raw data coming from various sources like IOT, 
websites, mobile phones, etc. and preprocessing is done in Map-reduce. 
Pig framework converts any pig job into Map-reduce hence we can use the pig to do the ETL (Extract Transform and Load) process on the raw data. 

•	Developed by Yahoo!
•	Part of the Hadoop ecosystem.
•	Uses a scripting language called Pig Latin.

Key Features
•	High-level language (Pig Latin) for data analysis.
•	Extensible: You can write your own functions (UDFs) in Java, Python, etc..
•	Handles complex data like nested structures.
•	Optimized: Pig scripts are automatically converted into optimized MapReduce jobs.

Pig Latin Overview
Pig Latin is a data flow language. It uses a step-by-step approach where each step in the script defines a transformation.
Apache pig framework has below major components as part of its Architecture:
1.	Pig Latin Script
2.	Grunt Shell (Interactive shell)
3.	Pig Engine (Executes the script)
4.	Parser(checks syntax, output in DAG)
5.	Optimizer(perform logical optimization)
6.	Compiler(generates a series of Map-Reduce jobs)
7.	Execution Modes: (submitted to Hadoop in sorted order)
  o	Local Mode: Runs on a single machine (good for testing)
  o	MapReduce Mode: Runs on Hadoop cluster
 
Use Cases
•	ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) operations.
•	Log processing.
•	Data preparation for machine learning.
•	Ad-hoc data analysis.

Advantages of Pig
•	Easier to write and understand than raw MapReduce.
•	Faster development time.
•	Scales well with Hadoop.
•	Good for schema-less, semi-structured data.

Limitations
•	Not suitable for real-time processing.
•	Less popular now due to rise of Apache Spark.
•	Requires Hadoop infrastructure.

Apache Pig Installation (Local Mode)
Step 1: Prerequisites
Before installing Pig, make sure you have the following installed:
1.	Java (JDK) – version 8 is recommended.
2.	Hadoop (optional for local mode, but useful).
3.	Pig binary package.

Step 2: 📦 Download Apache Pig
Get the latest stable Pig release from the official site:
wget https://downloads.apache.org/pig/pig-0.17.0/pig-0.17.0.tar.gz

Step 3: 📂 Extract and Set Up Pig
Extract the downloaded archive:
tar -xvzf pig-0.17.0.tar.gz
mv pig-0.17.0 pig

Add Pig to your environment variables:
export PIG_HOME=~/pig
export PATH=$PIG_HOME/bin:$PATH

Step 4:  Run Pig in Local Mode
You can now launch Pig in local mode (doesn't need Hadoop cluster):
pig -x local

You’ll enter the interactive Grunt shell:

grunt>

Try a simple command:

grunt> a = LOAD 'data.txt' USING PigStorage(',') AS (id:int, name:chararray);
grunt> DUMP a;
(Make sure data.txt is in the same directory or give full path)

Step 5: Verify Installation
To test, create a simple Pig Latin script (e.g., script.pig):
-- script.pig
data = LOAD 'data.txt' USING PigStorage(',') AS (id:int, name:chararray);
filtered = FILTER data BY id > 10;
DUMP filtered;

Run it:
pig -x local script.pig
